Three Bears
A little girl went out of the house into the forest. In the forest she got lost and began to look for the way home, but she did not find it, and came to a house in the forest.
The door was open: she looked in the door, and saw that there was no one in the house, and she went in. In this house lived three bears. One bear was the father, and his name was Mikhail Ivanovich. He was big and shaggy. The other was the mother. She was smaller, and her name was Nastasya Petrovna. The third was a little cub, and his name was Mishutka. The bears were not at home; they had gone for a walk in the forest.
There were two rooms in the house: one was the dining room, and the other was the bedroom. The girl entered the dining room and saw three bowls of soup on the table. The first bowl, which was very large, belonged to Mikhail Ivanovich. The second bowl, which was smaller, belonged to Nastasya Petrovna. The third bowl, which was blue, belonged to Mishutka. There was a spoon next to each bowl: a large spoon, a medium-sized spoon, and a small spoon.
The little girl took the biggest spoon and ate from the biggest cup; then she took the middle spoon and ate from the middle cup; then she took the little spoon and ate from the blue cup, and she liked Mishutka's soup the best of all.
The little girl wanted to sit down, and she saw three chairs at the table: one big one for Mikhail Ivanich, one smaller one for Nastasya Petrovna, and a third, small one with a blue cushion, for Mishutka.
She climbed up on the big chair and fell off; then she sat down on the middle chair, which was uncomfortable; then she sat down on the little chair and laughed, because it was so nice. She put the blue cup on her lap and began to eat. She ate all the soup and began to rock on the chair.
The chair broke, and she fell to the floor. She got up, picked up the chair, and went into the other room. There were three beds: one large one for Mikhaila Ivanych, one medium-sized one for Nastasya Petrovna, and one small one for Mishka.
The little girl lay down in the big one, but it was too big; she lay down in the middle one, but it was too high; she lay down in the little one, and it was just the right size for her, and she went to sleep. And the bears came home hungry and wanted to have their dinner.
The big bear picked up his cup, looked at it, and roared in a terrible voice: — WHO HAS BEEN DRINKING FROM MY CUP! Nastasya Petrovna looked at her cup and roared less loudly: — WHO HAS BEEN DRINKING FROM MY CUP! And Mishutka saw his empty cup and squeaked in a thin voice: — Who has been drinking from my cup and drunk it all!
Mikhail Ivanovich looked at his chair and roared in a terrible voice: — WHO WAS SITTING ON MY CHAIR AND MOVING IT! Nastasya Petrovna looked at her chair and roared less loudly: — WHO WAS SITTING ON MY CHAIR AND MOVING IT! Mishutka looked at his broken chair and squeaked: — Who was sitting on my chair and breaking it!
"WHO LAY IN MY BED AND MOLDED IT!" Mikhailo Ivanovich roared in a terrible voice. "WHO LAY IN MY BED AND MOLDED IT!" Nastasya Petrovna roared, not so loudly. And Mishka put a stool under his bed, climbed into his crib, and squeaked in a thin voice: "Who lay in my bed!"
And suddenly he saw the little girl, and he screamed as if he was being cut: "There she is! Hold her, hold her! There she is! There she is! Oh, dear! Hold her! He wanted to bite her. The little girl opened her eyes, saw the bears, and ran to the window. The window was open, and she jumped out and ran away. And the bears could not catch her.
Читайте на Правмире: https://www.pravmir.ru/russkie-narodnye-skazki/#i-2
